
SUBMISSION: 5
TITLE: On the Proof Theory of Property-Based Testing of Coinductive Specifications, or: PBT to Infinity and beyond


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 5
TITLE: On the Proof Theory of Property-Based Testing of Coinductive Specifications, or: PBT to Infinity and beyond
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Dale Miller and Alberto Momigliano

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:
This abstract is about property-based testing (PBT), an approach to
automatic testing of logical specifications. The approach has first
been developed with QuickCheck in the context of functional
programming. It has since also found applications in theorem proving,
e.g. with QuickChick for Coq, since it is useful to quickly search for
possible counter-examples of a candidate theorem before investing
effort in a developing a proof. 

In earlier work, the authors had explained how property-based testing
is related to proof search in logic. They had shown that, at its core,
property-based testing can be understood as a form of proof search for
simple logic programs. 

The aim of this abstract is to extend the approach to property-based
testing to cover also logics with coinductive definitions. The is well
within the scope of LFMTP and should make for a nice work in progress
talk. Extending PBT to cover coinductive definitions is quite
interesting. 

While the abstract explains the context and the aim of the author's
work well, it could be clearer about what their proposal actually
is. What is the target logic that PBT is being done for? The abstract
mentions Coq's coinductive definitions at the beginning. Would the
work be intended to help extending systems like QuickChick, for
example? The role of Bedwyr does not become fully clear. Is is used
just in the backend for proof search or also as an example for a
target logic? Perhaps this can be clarified in the talk. 



----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 5
TITLE: On the Proof Theory of Property-Based Testing of Coinductive Specifications, or: PBT to Infinity and beyond
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Dale Miller and Alberto Momigliano

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:
The abstract presents work in progress towards doing property-based
testing of logical specifications using proof search, in the presence
of coinductive specifications. 

The abstract says that "PBT does not extend well to coinductive
specifications" without explaining why. I did not see at first what
this could mean. Then, reading what follows on focused proof search, I
thought it would mean this: coinductive PBT would need to lazily
generate coinductive objects for testing, requiring a generalization
of the current generate-then-test mode of operation. The authors
should clarify if this is what is meant. 

[tried better explain infinite terms vs infinite behaviour]
The abstract includes an example involves a coinductive specification
of evaluation of (the usual finite) lambda-terms. It may seem to be a
weak example: are we not simply searching for finite terms E, V1 and
V2 such that (coeval E V1 /\ coeval E V2 /\ V1 != V2) ? From what I
know of the system that the authors use, I'm inclined to believe that
this criticism is invalid, but the issue should be addressed. 

[sorry to disappint the reviewer, but no infinite terms]

This is an important topic and should make for an interesting
presentation. The abstract leaves me curious to hear more about it. I
therefore suggest acceptance. 



----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 5
TITLE: On the Proof Theory of Property-Based Testing of Coinductive Specifications, or: PBT to Infinity and beyond
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Dale Miller and Alberto Momigliano

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:

The abstract describes property-based testing for coinductive
specifications on the basis of the proof-theoretic framework of
Foundational Proof Certificates (FPC).  This extends recent work by
the same authors [7] which focused on relational (inductive)
specifications.  The authors use the Bedwyr model-checker to find
counterexamples to conjectures involving coinductive predicates.

The long-abstract format has led to the omission of certain details
that should be included if the authors choose to submit a full paper
later.  For instance, it is not sufficiently clear at the moment why
the logics G and μMALL are "a natural choice" in this context, what
the (current or future) role of Abella is, and how negation is
treated.

[no action]

Minor:

"Is evaluation still deterministic? That is, can we prove the
following formula? [...] Indeed we can" -- this is confusingly
phrased; upon careless reading, it gives the impression that
evaluation is indeed deterministic.

[DONE]
"in particular, both Abella and Bedwyr and include the ∇ quantifier"

 [DONE]
