LFMTP 2020 <lfmtp2020@easychair.org>
Mon, Jun 1, 6:23 PM (21 hours ago)

Dear author,

it is my pleasure to inform you that your talk proposal for LFMTP has
been accepted. Please, read carefully the reviews for your abstract
(or full paper), since they may contain precious suggestions to
improve the text of the abstract or to shape your talk. 

We now invite you to re-submit a second version of the abstract that
takes into account the suggestions, in case we will be able to
informally publish the abstracts on the website. A reasonable deadline
for re-submission is Sunday, 7th of June. 

We are now looking forward to listen to your talk soon.

Cheers,
Claudio Sacerdoti Coen
(on behalf of the PC)

SUBMISSION: 6
TITLE: Linking a lambda Prolog proof checker to the Coq kernel: An extended abstract

----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 6
TITLE: Linking a lambda Prolog proof checker to the Coq kernel: An extended abstract
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Matteo Manighetti and Dale Miller

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:

From what I understand (the paper is not very clear), this paper
presents a framework for allowing in the proof assistant Coq the use
of "external" automated provers returning FPC certificates which are
in turn converted into Coq proof terms using some FPC checker. This is
achieved by using Elpi, a lambda-Prolog interpreter embedded in
Coq. Currently, it seems that only provers written in Elpi itself can
be used (hence the double quotes around "external").

I find the topic interesting. It should lead to interesting questions
and discussions. For instance, would it be possible to use truly
external provers like SAT or SMT solvers, or provers like Vampire, E,
etc.? Would this scale up? Could this be applied to not just Coq terms
of type Prop but any term, perhaps using [7].

So I am in favor of acceptance. However, the paper is not very clear
and I invite authors to improve it. First, it would be nice that the
first lines explain what you did and how (an abstract in the abstract)
before giving more context. Second, the paper is actually one page
only when you remove the title and the references, and a great part of
this is dedicated to the context (FPC) rather than the contribution
itself. By compacting the bibliography (easy) and slightly shortening
the presentation of FPC (easy as well), the authors will be able to
give much more details on how things are actually working. This would
be much more attractive.

Remarks:

- "The Coq kernel, on the other hand, works with exactly one form of
  proof structure and that proof system is fully detailed. In
  particular, the Coq kernel performs type-checking on a dependently
  typed λ -term."

Note however that Coq has a system of metavariables representing holes
in a proof.

----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 6
TITLE: Linking a lambda Prolog proof checker to the Coq kernel: An extended abstract
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Matteo Manighetti and Dale Miller

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:
This abstract outlines the design of the FPC-Coq system, a tool which
provides a link between a logic programming implementation of an FPC
proof checker and the Coq kernel.  This is very interesting both for
users and developers of the Coq proof system. Therefore, I propose to
accept this abstract for presentation at LFMTP.  The abstract is clear
and well-written.

----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 6
TITLE: Linking a lambda Prolog proof checker to the Coq kernel: An extended abstract
AUTHORS: Roberto Blanco, Matteo Manighetti and Dale Miller

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:

Building on the the Foundational Proof Certificate (FPC) framework,
this abstract describes the implementation of a system that integrates
a logic programming proof checker into the kernel of Coq. Such system
allows to import/check proof certificates produced by  external
(intuitionistic logic) provers. The imported proof objects do not need
to be fully detailed. Instead, during proof reconstruction, the
checker completes all the missing details (needed to be type checked
by Coq's kernel). 

The proposed framework may contribute to deal with the lack of robust
mechanisms for proof search in Coq. Moreover, it may allow the
integration of automatic theorem provers in Coq projects. The topic is
certainly of interesest for the workshop and I recommend the
presentation of this paper. 

